>> Woodruff: IN AN EXTENDED,
EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW, THE HIGHEST
RANKING UNIFORMED MEMBER OF THE
U.S. MILITARY, THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, ARMY
GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY
ADDRESSES SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN THE
RANKS.
AND HOW MOSCOW'S PUSH INTO
UKRAINE COULD EXPAND THE CRISIS
ACROSS THE REGION.
IF RUSSIA IS ALLOWED TO DO
THIS, WHICH IS TO SAY MOVE INTO
A SOVEREIGN COUNTRY UNDER THE
GUISE OF PROTECTING ETHNIC
RUSSIANS IN UKRAINE, IT EXPOSES
EASTERN EUROPE TO SOME
IF
ARE ETHNIC ENCLAVES ALL OVER
EASTERN EUROPE AND THE BALKANS.
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING, I'M
JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS FRIDAY, MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS, OUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT,
MILES O'BRIEN, AFTER REPORTING
FROM JAPAN INSIDE THE CRIPPLED
FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR PLANT,
SUFFERED A LIFE-THREATENING
INJURY IN THE PHILIPPINES AND
HIS LEFT ARM WAS AMPUTATED.
TONIGHT, HE DISCUSSES LIVING,
WORKING, AND COPING, AFTER WHAT
HAPPENED.
>> I REALLY LIKE TO RIDE MY
BIKE, I LIKE TO FLY AIRPLANES
AND I WANT TO GET BACK TO
SHOOTING VIDEO.
THESE ARE MY THREE O CRITERIA.
THEY'RE, LIKE, NO PROBLEM, WE
HAVE ATTACHMENTS FOR ALL OF
THAT.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
SECTORS HARD, APPARENTLY DIDN'T
HAVE A HUGE IMPACT ON JOBS.
TODAY'S LABOR DEPARTMENT NUMBERS
EXCEEDED ECONOMISTS'
EXPECTATIONS.
EMPLOYERS ADDED 175,000 JOBS
LAST MONTH.
AND THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE ROSE
SLIGHTLY TO 6.7%, BECAUSE MORE
PEOPLE WERE TRYING TO FIND WORK.
>> Woodruff: BUT FOR STOCKS ON
WALL STREET IT WAS A DAY OF
FLUCTUATION, WITH THE JOB NEWS
SENDING THEM UP, AND UNCERTAINTY
OVER UKRAINE SENDING THEM DOWN.
IN THE END, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED 30
POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE 16,452.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 16 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,336.
THE S & P 500 ROSE A POINT TO
CLOSE AT 1,878.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW AND NASDAQ
GAINED MORE THAN A 1.5%.
THE S & P 500 WAS UP NEARLY 2%.
FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT TODAY'S
>> Woodruff: THE BITTER COLD
THAT'S GRIPPED MUCH OF THE
NATION AND HIT SOME ECONOMIC
THE S & P 500 WAS UP NEARLY 2%.
FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT TODAY'S
JOBS NUMBERS, I AM JOINED BY
DIANE SWONK.
SENIOR MANAGING DIRECTOR AND
THAT'S GRIPPED MUCH OF THE
NATION AND HIT SOME ECONOMIC
SECTORS HARD, APPARENTLY DIDN'T
DIANE SWONK.
SENIOR MANAGING DIRECTOR AND
CHIEF ECONOMIST FOR MESIROW
NATION AND HIT SOME ECONOMIC
SECTORS HARD, APPARENTLY DIDN'T
HAVE A HUGE IMPACT ON JOBS.
SENIOR MANAGING DIRECTOR AND
CHIEF ECONOMIST FOR MESIROW
FINANCIAL.
>> DIANE, WELCOME BACK TO THE
"NewsHour".
SO, DESPITE THE MISERABLE
WEATHER, JOB CREATION WAS UP.
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN IT?
>> WELL, ACTUALLY, FEBRUARY IS
THE BEGINNING OF A HIRING SPREE
FOR MOST FIRMS.
VACCINESLY, IT'S WHEN WE TEND TO
HAVE A BIG UPSWING EVEN DURING
THE HEIGHT OF THE CRISIS IN
2009, FEBRUARY HAD THE LEAST
LOSSES.
IT IS THE TIME WE START HIRING,
PARTICULARLY IN THE EDUCATION
SECTOR.
THIS IS ENCOURAGING BECAUSE WE'D
SEEN DRACONIAN CUTS OF TEACHERS
DURING THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS AS
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
TRIED TO BALANCE THEIR BUDGETS.
FINALLY, WE DID SEE TEACHERS
COME BACK IN THIS MONTH AND
THAT'S VERY GOOD BECAUSE IT
MEANS BALANCE SHEETS ARE HEALING
AT STATE AND LOCAL LEVEL.
WELE ALSO SAW AN IMPRINT OF THE
WEATHER ON THE COMPOSITION OF
JOB GROWTH, SO CALL IT MIGRATION
AND HIBERNATION.
WE SAW DEPARTMENT STORES
ACTUALLY LAY PEOPLE OFF BECAUSE
PEOPLE WERE NOT WALKING THROUGH
THE MALLS OR GOING OUT.
IT WAS REALLY COLD HERE AND I
KNOW IN WASHINGTON AS WELL, AND
PEOPLE JUST HIBERNATED.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, THOSE WHO
COULD MIGRATED, THEY WENT TO
RESORTS, SKI RESORTS, SUNNY
LOCATIONS AND LEISURE AND
HOSPITALITY INCREASED.
WE DID SEE THE IMPRINT ON THE
WEATHER EVEN ON THE COMPOSITION
OF THE JOB GAINS AND WERE ABLE
TO, DESPITE THE WEATHER, HAVE A
SEASONAL UPSWING AND HAVE A
HEALING IN THE U.S. ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING IS THE JOB CREATION
APPEARS THAT IT'S GOING TO
CONTINUE.
>> I THINK WE ARE GOING TO SEE
JOB CREATION CONTINUE.
ANOTHER BIG STORM IS PREDICTED
FOR MARCH OF NEXT WEEK, SO WE'RE
GOING TO SEE DISPLACEMENT HERE.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING FROM THE
WEATHER IS DEFERRED, DISPLACED
AND ACTUALLY BECAUSE IT
DESTROYED SOME THINGS IS
CREATING ECONOMIC ACTIVITY ON
THE ROAD.
A LOT OF POTHOLES HAVE TO BE
FILLED IN THE MIDWEST, A LOT OF
TIRES ARE BLOWN OUT AND PENT-UP
DEMAND IS STRONG FOR VEHICLES
THAT ARE VERY OLD AND MANY PLAIN
DIED IN THIS WEATHER BECAUSE OF
THE COLD.
>> Woodruff: DIANE SWONK WITH
ME SIROW FINANCIAL.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER NEWS,
RUSSIA'S GOVERNMENT THREW IT'S
SUPPORT BEHIND THE UPCOMING
REFERENDUM IN CRIMEA, WHERE
VOTERS ARE DUE TO DECIDE WHETHER
TO BREAK WITH UKRAINE AND JOIN
RUSSIA.
MEANWHILE, ON THE GROUND IN
UKRAINE, THERE WERE REPORTS A
MILITARY BASE IN CRIMEA WAS
SIEGED BY RUSSIANS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE ON THE
DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.
>> Brown: THE SIGN READS IN
CYRILLIC, "CRIMEA: RUSSIAN
LAND," AND TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
RUSSIANS FLOODED RED SQUARE FOR
A GOVERNMENT-SANCTIONED RALLY TO
URGE THE CRIMEANS TO JOIN
RUSSIA.
>> ( translated ): IT IS OUR
LAND, OUR GRANDFATHERS AND
GRAND-GRANDFATHERS SHED THEIR
BLOOD THERE.
CRIMEA SHOULD BE PART OF RUSSIA.
>> Brown: THE CRIMEAN PARLIAMENT
HAS SET A MARCH 16 UP OR DOWN
VOTE ON LEAVING UKRAINE TO
BECOME PART OF RUSSIA.
LATE TODAY, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
REPORTED THAT A UKRAINIAN
MILITARY POST IN CRIMEA WAS
UNDER SIEGE BY RUSSIANS, BUT NO
SHOTS WERE FIRED.
AND TODAY, LEADERS OF BOTH
HOUSES OF RUSSIA'S PARLIAMENT
SAID THAT THEY WOULD WELCOME
CRIMEA BECOMING RUSSIAN.
VALENTINA MATVIEYNKO IS SPEAKER
OF RUSSIA'S UPPER HOUSE.
>> ( translated ): IF THE PEOPLE
OF CRIMEA EXPRESSES THEIR WILL
AT THE REFERENDUM AND MAKE A
DECISION TO JOIN RUSSIA WE, AS
THE UPPER HOUSE OF PARLIAMENT,
WILL OF COURSE SUPPORT SUCH A
DECISION.
>> Brown: BUT THE INTERIM
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV, THE UNITED
STATES AND THE EUROPEAN UNION
HAVE ALL DENOUNCED THE VOTE AS
ILLEGAL.
PRESIDENT OBAMA REINFORCED THAT
MESSAGE IN AN HOUR-LONG CALL
LAST NIGHT WITH RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN.
TODAY, RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
SERGEI LAVROV SPOKE WITH
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY.
IN A BLUNTLY-WORDED STATEMENT,
THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY
SAID THAT LAVROV:
BUT SPEAKING IN DUBLIN, GERMAN
CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL
REITERATED THAT SANCTIONS WOULD
BE LEVIED.
>> ( translated ): WE SAID VERY
CLEARLY WHAT SORT OF SANCTIONS
WERE TO BE ADOPTED, IF THERE
WERE FURTHER ATTACKS ON UKRAINE
AND ITS TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY
THEN WE WILL RESPOND WITH A
BROAD RANGE OF MEASURES.
>> Brown: AFTER MEETING WITH
EUROPEAN LEADERS IN BRUSSELS,
THE UKRAINIAN PRIME MINISTER
URGED RUSSIA AGAIN TO LEAVE
CRIMEA
>> ( translated ): IN ORDER FOR
OUR RUSSIAN NEIGHBORS TO BECOME
OUR PARTNERS, THEY FIRST OF ALL
HAVE TO WITHDRAW THEIR TROOPS.
THEY HAVE TO ABIDE BY BILATERAL
AND MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS
WHICH RUSSIA HAS SIGNED.
>> Brown: ONE VITAL AGREEMENT
WITH RUSSIA INVOLVES FUEL
SUPPLY, AND TODAY RUSSIA'S
STATE-CONTROLLED GAS MONOPOLY,
GAZPROM, SAID IT MAY SUSPEND ITS
SUPPLY TO UKRAINE, AFTER IT
FAILED TO PAY FOR FEBRUARY
DELIVERIES.
FOR NOW, IT WILL CONTINUE
TRANSIT SHIPMENTS TO EUROPE.
>> Woodruff: A CONGOLESE REBEL
LEADER WAS CONVICTED TODAY OF
MURDER AND PILLAGE.
GERMAIN KATANGA APPEARED BEFORE
THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT
IN THE HAGUE FOR HIS ROLE IN THE
2003 MASSACRE OF MORE THAN 200
VILLAGERS IN EASTERN CONGO.
KATANGA WAS CLEARED OF
COMMITTING SEXUAL CRIMES AND
USING CHILD SOLDIERS.
IT WAS ONLY THE SECOND
CONVICTION MADE IN THE COURT'S
12-YEAR HISTORY.
A NEW STUDY FOUND MALARIA MOVES
TO HIGHER ELEVATIONS DURING
WARMER YEARS, AND CREEPS BACK
DOWN WHEN TEMPERATURES COOL.
THE FINDINGS WERE PUBLISHED IN
"SCIENCE MAGAZINE," AND ANALYZED
DATA FROM ETHIOPIA AND COLOMBIA.
RESEARCHERS FROM THE U.S. AND
BRITAIN SAID IT WAS THE FIRST
HARD EVIDENCE OF A LINK BETWEEN
CLIMATE CHANGE AND MALARIA, AND
IT COULD LEAD TO A SIGNIFICANT
INCREASE IN PLACES WHERE PEOPLE
ARE MORE VULNERABLE.
MALARIA CURRENTLY INFECTS ABOUT
220 MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR.
THE KANSAS SUPREME COURT RULED
TODAY THAT THE STATE'S CURRENT
LEVELS OF PUBLIC SCHOOL FUNDING
IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
IT SAID THAT POOR SCHOOL
DISTRICTS IN KANSAS WERE HURT
WHEN THE STATE DECIDED TO CUT
PAYMENTS BECAUSE OF FALLING TAX
REVENUE DURING THE RECES
THE JUSTICES SAID THE STATE HAD
FAILED TO PROVIDE EQUITY IN
EDUCATION.
IT SENT THE CASE BACK TO A LOWER
COURT TO DETERMINE WHAT THE NEW
FUNDING SHOULD BE
THE GENERATION OF AMERICANS
KNOWN AS MILLENNIALS
ARE MORE LIKELY TO LEAN TO THE
LEFT WHEN IT COMES TO POLITICS,
EVEN THOUGH THEY DESCRIBE
THEMSELVES AS INDEPENDENT.
A SURVEY BY THE PEW RESEARCH
CENTER FOUND THAT HALF OF ALL
ADULTS AGED 18 TO 33 ARE
DEMOCRATS OR LEAN DEMOCRATIC,
THE HIGHEST SHARE FOR ANY AGE
GROUP IN THE LAST DECADE.
THE SURVEY ALSO FOUND MORE YOUNG
ADULTS REMAIN SINGLE, AND ARE
LESS RELIGIOUS THAN PREVIOUS
GENERATIONS AT THIS STAGE OF
THEIR LIVES.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
OUR EXCLUSIVE, EXTENDED
INTERVIEW WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF; MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS; PLUS, OUR OWN
MILES O'BRIEN, ON LIVING AND
WORKING AFTER LOSING HIS ARM.
>> Woodruff: THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE, BUDGET BATTLES, THE
WIND DOWN AND UNCERTAINTY OF
U.S. TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN AND
THE INCREASE OF SEXUAL ASSAULTS
IN THE ARMED FORCES AND WHAT TO
DO ABOUT IT.
THESE ARE ALL FRONT-BURNER
ISSUES FOR THE HIGHEST RANKING
UNIFORMED MEMBER OF THE
MILITARY, CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT
CHIEFS, ARMY GENERAL MARTIN
DEMPSEY.
IN A RARE TELEVISION INTERVIEW,
HE SAT DOWN WITH ME EARLIER
TODAY AT THE PENTAGON.
GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY, CHAIRMAN
OF THE JOINT CHIEFS, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> EXCITED TO BE HERE TODAY.
>> Woodruff: THE UNITED STATES
IS SENDING MORE MILITARY
MATERIAL, FORCES INTO EASTERN
EUROPE, F-15s INTO THE
BATTLICS, FORCES INTO THE BLACK
SEA, WHAT MESSAGE IS THE U.S.
SENDING TO RUSSIA?
>> ALMOST SENDING A MESSAGE
ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH
DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS SO THAT I
HAVE AN OPEN LINE TO MY RUSSIAN
COUNTERPART I'VE USED IN THE
LAST TWO CASE DAYS.
WE'RE TRYING TO TELL THEM NOT TO
ESCALATE INTO EASTERN UKRAINE
AND ALLOW CONDITIONS TO BE SET
FOR SOME KIND OF RESOLUTION IN
THE CRIMEA.
BUT THE MESSAGE WE ARE SENDING
IS TO OUR NATO ALLIES.
ONE OF RESPONSIBILITIES AT TIMES
LIKE THIS IS TO REASSURE OUR
ALLIES.
THE DEPLOYMENT YOU MENTIONED
INTO THE BALTIC AIR MISSION AND
INTO THE AVIATION DETACHMENT IN
POLAND, THE DEPLOYMENT TO HAVE
THE SHIPS ARE INTENDED TO
REASSURE OUR ALLIES.
>> Woodruff: SO THE U.S. IS
SAYING TO THE ALLIES, IF THIS
WERE TO COME TOLE SOME SORT OF
MILITARY CONFLICT, THE U.S.
WOULD BACK UP NATO?
>> WELL, DON'T FORGET, ACTUALLY,
WE HAVE NATO TREATY OBLIGATIONS
UNDER ARTICLE 5 FOR COLLECTIVE
DEFENSE AND, SO, WHEN THEY ASK
US FOR REASSURANCE OR THEY ASK
US FOR CONTINGENCY PLANNING, WE
RESPOND, AND WE DO HAVE
OBLIGATIONS WITH NATO.
>> Woodruff: BUT IF THERE WERE
TO BE A MISUNDERSTANDING OF SOME
SORT, IF THERE WERE TO BE AN
ACCIDENT THAT WERE TO LEAD TO
SOMETHING BIGGER, HAS THE
ADMINISTRATION THOUGHT THROUGH
THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT THAT
MEANS, THE TWO COUNTRIES THAT
ARE THE GREATEST ARMED POWERS ON
THE PLANET INVOLVED?
>> WELL, THAT'S WHY WE'RE
SEEKING AGGRESSIVELY TO RESOLVE
THIS DIPLOMATICALLY BEFORE WE
WOULD REACH THE POINT WHERE
THERE COULD BE A MISCALCULATION.
IT'S PROBABLY WORTH MENTIONING
WHY THIS IS SO UNSETTLING TO THE
EASTERN EUROPEANS.
YOU KNOW, WE IN AMERICA
SOMETIMES DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
REALITIES OF GEOGRAPHY AND
DEMOGRAPHICS IN EASTERN EUROPE.
IF RUSSIA IS ALLOWED TO DO THIS,
WHICH IS TO SAY MOVE INTO A
SOVEREIGN COUNTRY UNDER THE
GUISE OF PROTECTING ETHNIC
RUSSIANS IN UKRAINE, IT EXPOSES
EASTERN EUROPE TO SOME
SIGNIFICANT RISK BECAUSE THERE
BALKANS.C ENCLAVES ALL OVER
I'LL TELL YOU ONE EXAMPLE.
THERE ARE 400,000 ETHNIC RUE
MAIN YANS IN THE UKRAINE.
SO THIS IS ENORMOUSLY
UNSETTLING.
>> Reporter:.
>> Woodruff: THE RUSSIANS ARE
SAYING THEY HAVE AN HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP WITH CRIMEA AND
THEY'RE SAYING THE CRIMEAN
LEGISLATURE HAS VOTED TO HAVE A
REFERENDUM AND THEY'RE SAYING
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV DID
WAS ILLEGAL.
>> OF COURSE, THEY ARE.
THEY'RE TRYING TO ROLL BACK TO
THE FEBRUARY 21 AGREEMENT AND
THIS THEY'RE TRYING TO SUGGEST
REALLY THE COLLAPSE STARTED ON
FEBRUARY 25.
THOSE ARE MATTERS OF DIPLOMACY.
OUR ROLE AS THE MILITARY IS TO
SEEK WAYS TO INFLUENCE THIS
WITHOUT IT BEING ESCALATED.
I HAVE THIS OPEN LINE WITH MY
RUSSIAN COUNTERPARTS SO
EVERYTHING WE'VE DONE, I TELL
THEM, HERE'S WHAT WE'RE DOING
AND WHY WE'RE DOING IT.
WE DISAGREE FUNDAMENTALLY ABOUT
YOUR CLAIM OF LEGITIMACY, BUT AS
MILITARIES LET'S TRY TO AVOID
ESCALATING THIS.
>> Woodruff: BUT THERE'S A
CHANCE OF ESCALATION.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: IS THE U.S.
PREPARED IF THAT HAPPENS?
>> THAT'S A QUESTION THAT
DESERVES TO BE REASSESSED AND
REFRESHED AS THIS THING EVOLVES.
BUT REMEMBER, WE HAVE TREATY
OBLIGATIONS WITH OUR NATO ALLIES
AND I HAVE ASSURED THEM THAT IF
THAT TREATY OBLIGATION IS
TRIGGERED WE WOULD RESPOND WOOD
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH OF YOUR
TIME IS SPENT ON THIS ISSUE,
GENERAL DEMPSEY?
>> QUITE A BIT.
THERE ARE OTHER THINGS GOING ON
IN THE WORLD AND WE HAD THIS
LITTLE MATTER OF THE BUDGET.
SO AS MUCH AS I NEED TO SPEND ON
IT, I'M SPENDING ON IT.
>> Woodruff: SPEAKING OF THE
BUDGET, THE ADMINISTRATION
ANNOUNCED AND THE PENTAGON
ANNOUNCED JUST A FEW DAYS AGO
THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE A
DOWNSIZING OF MATERIAL AND
TROOPS BACK TO A SIZE THAT WE
HAVEN'T SEEN SINCE BEFORE WORLD
WAR II.
BECAUSE OF WHAT'S GOING ON RIGHT
NOW IN EASTERN EUROPE, ANY
SECOND THOUGHTS ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, I'M NOT SURE THAT IF WE
HAD A MILLION-MAN ARMY THAT IT
WOULD HAVE MADE ANY DIFFERENCE
IN THE RUSSIAN CALCULATION TO
ENTER UKRAINE.
WITH THAT SAID, WE DO HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO DETER CONFLICT AND
PREPARE FOR WHAT COULD OCCUR.
AND WE ARE REACHING A POINT
BECAUSE OF NOT ONLY THE DEPTH OF
THE DEBT REDUCTIONS BUT THE
MECHANISM, THE DRACONIAN WAY
IT'S APPLIED, WHERE WE CAN'T
MOVE MONEY AROUND OR BALANCE THE
BUDGET IN ANY RESPONSIBLE WAY,
THAT IS AFFECTING OUR READINESS.
SO IF YOU'RE ASKING ME, YOU
KNOW, DOES THIS INCREASE THE
URGENCY WITH WHICH I ARTICULATE
THE RISKS WE ARE BEGINNING TO
ACCRUE, SURE, IT DOES.
>> Woodruff: I ASK BECAUSE I'M
SURE YOU KNOW THERE HAS BEEN A
CRESCENDO OF CRITICISM, THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE ON
SERVICES COMMITTEE, THE
CONGRESSMAN SAID HE CALLED THE
DOWNSIZING IMMORAL.
HOE SAYS U.S. ADVERSARIES ARE
GROWING BOLDER BECAUSE OF IT AND
TALKS ABOUT CHINA AND RUSSIA
ARMING UP WHILE THE U.S. IS
PREPARING TO ARM DOWN.
HOW DO YOU ANSWER THIS?
>> LOOK, EVEN AT THE BUDGET
LEVEL THAT HAS BEEN SUBMITTED BY
THE DEPARTMENT, WHICH IS ABOUT
$115 BILLION OVER THE BUDGET
CONTROL ACT, MOST COMMONLY KNOWN
AS SAS SEQUESTRATION, AT THAT L,
WE CAN STILL BE THE MOST
POWERFUL POWER IN THE WORLD IN
2020.
THERE ARE MORE THAN A MILLION
MEN AND WOMEN IN UNIFORM AND
ALMOST 2 MILLION IN THE GUARD
AND RESERVE.
WE HAVE FORWARD OPERATING BASES,
CLOSE AND STRONG ALLIANCES.
THIS IS NOT A MILITARY IN
DECLINE.
IT WOULD BE AT THE LEVEL OF
BUDGET WE SUBMITTED.
BUT IF WE'RE DRIVEN TO THE FULL
REDUCTIONS OF THE CONTROL ACT,
CALLED SEQUESTRATION, WE WOULD
HAVE WHAT I THINK WOULD BE TOO
MUCH RISK.
>> Woodruff: THE QUESTION ON
THE OTHER SIDE WHICH YOU KNOW
WELL, A NUMBER OF REPUBLICAN AND
EVEN DEMOCRATIC DEFICIT HAWKS
ARE SAYING THIS BUDGET DOESN'T
ABIDE BY THE LOWER BUDGET
NUMBERS OF THE PAST, THAT IT
IGNORES THE DEFICIT, BLOWS A
HOLE THROUGH IT.
WE'VE GOT CRITICS COMING FROM
THAT SIDE.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THEM?
>> YOU KNOW, I'M TRYING TO
ACTUALLY MANAGE THE CRITICISMS
ON BOTH SIDES AND DO WHAT I
THINK IS RIGHT FOR THE COUNTRY,
AND I THINK WE'VE DONE THAT IN
THE WAY WE'VE ARTICULATED THIS
BUDGET SUBMISSION AND WHAT WE
WOULD DO BOTH TO BE MORE
FISCALLY RESPONSIBLE.
I'M A CITIZEN AS WELL AS A
SOLDIER AND I UNDERSTAND THE
FISCAL CONSTRAINTS THE NATION
FACES.
WE CAN ACTUALLY DO THIS, THAT'S
MY MESSAGE. IT AT SEQUESTRATION
LEVELS, I'VE SAID THAT CLEARLY,
BUT WE CAN DO IT AT THE LEVEL OF
SUBMISSION.
WE HAVE TO HAVE THE FLEXIBILITY
TO MAKE THE HARD DECISIONS.
>> Woodruff: AFGHANISTAN, THE
PRESIDENT SAID THAT THE U.S. IS
PREPARED TO PULL OUT ALL
AMERICAN TROOPS FROM
AFGHANISTAN.
IF YOU CAN'T GET THAT SECURITY
AGREEMENT YOU NEED FROM
AFGHANISTAN'S LEADERS.
CURRENT PRESIDENT KARZAI SAYING
HE'S NOT GOING TO DO IT AND,
RIGHT NOW, THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT
ANNOUNCED THEY'RE DISSOLVING A
CRITICAL GUARD FORCE THAT
PROTECTS SUPPLY CONVOYS,
INTERNATIONAL AID GROUPS.
WHAT DOES ALL THIS MEAN FOR THE
FUTURE OF THE U.S. COMMITMENT IN
AFGHANISTAN?
>> RIGHT.
WE DO NEED A BILATERAL SECURITY
AGREEMENT AND WE NEED IT BECAUSE
WE NEED A DEMONSTRATED STATEMENT
OF COMMITMENT FROM THE AFGHANS
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO TREAT US
LIKE PARTNERS AND NOT, ON
OCCASION, ACCUSE US OF BEING
OCCUPIERS.
IF YOU'RE ASKING ME HOW I THINK
THIS WILL RESOLVE ITSELF, I
THINK WE'RE PROBABLY IN A
POSITION WHERE IT'S UNLIKELY
WE'LL GET IT FROM THE CURRENT
PRESIDENT AND PROBABLY MORE
LIKELY WE'LL GET IT AFTER THE
ELECTIONS, WHICH WILL BEGIN TO
CONSTRAIN OUR OPTIONS POST 14.
BUT I'LL ALSO TELL YOU THAT WHEN
I WAS OVER THERE WE HAD A VERY
CANDID CONVERSATION WITH EACH
OTHER ABOUT THE FACT THAT,
ALTHOUGH THERE'S UNCERTAINTY IN
'15 AND BEYOND, WE HAVE A LOT OF
WORK TO DO IN '14.
SO WE'RE FOCUSED ON '14.
SOME OF THESE THINGS PRESIDENT
KARZAI HAS DONE WITH RELEASING
PRISONERS AND DISSOLVING THIS
PROTECTION FORCE, THOSE ARE
DISTURBING BECAUSE THEY VIOLATE
AGREEMENTS WE'VE ALREADY MADE
WITH THEM AND THEY'RE RISKY
BECAUSE OF INCREASED DANGER THAT
THEY POSE, BUT THEY'RE ALSO
RISKY IN THE MESSAGE IT SENDS
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, THEIR ABILITY
AND WILLINGNESS TO LIVE UP TO
AGREEMENTS AS THEY'RE MADE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, THEN, I'M
GOING TO TURN BACK SO MUCH TO
ASK YOU ABOUT, BUT I DO WANT TO
ASK YOU ABOUT A COUPLE OF OTHER
THINGS THAT HAVE GOTTEN
ATTENTION IN THE UNITED STATES.
A NUMBER OF EMBARRASSING
INCIDENTS IN THE LAST FEW YEARS
INVOLVING THE U.S. MILITARY
PERSONNEL, SUSPICIONS OF
CHEATING ON EXAMS BY SAILORS AT
A NUCLEAR TRAINING PROGRAM, AIR
FORCE OFFICERS ACCUSED OF
CHEATING ON DIFFERENT
QUALIFICATION EXAMS, SEXUAL
SCANDAL INVOLVING SENIOR NAVY
COMMANDERS AND OTHER INCIDENTS.
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE ARMED
FORCES?
IS THIS THE KIND OF THING THAT'S
ALWAYS BEEN HAPPENING AND IT'S
JUST NOW COMING OUT, OR IS THIS
A DIFFERENT PERIOD?
HOW DO YOU SEE IT?
>> I THINK WHAT HAPPENED IS
WE'VE GOTTEN MORE CARELESS AND
SLOPPY IN THE LAST TEN YEARS
WITH THE MECHANISMS THAT USED TO
PROVIDE OVERSIGHT, CHECKS AND
BALANCES, A SAFETY NET, IF YOU
WILL, FOR PROFESSIONALISM.
WE BECAME CONSUMED WITH
PREPARING TO GO ON A DEPLOYMENT,
GOING ON THE DEPLOYMENT, COMING
BACK AND GETTING READY TO GO
AGAIN.
WE STOPPED SENDING YOUNG MEN AND
WOMEN TO A PROFESSIONAL MILITARY
EDUCATION WHEN THEY SHOULD HAVE
GONE.
WE STOPPED DOING THINGS LIKE
COMMAND CLIMATE SURVEYS.
WE GOT SLOPPY WITH CONTRACTING
OVERSIGHT, AND WE'VE GOT TO GO
BACK -- I TELL YOU WHAT WE'VE
GOT TO DO, WE'VE GOT TO GO BACK
TO THE SMALL DISCIPLINES THAT
REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN
DEFINING OURSELVES AS A
PROFESSION, AND WE WILL.
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE SOME
ANALYSTS WHO HAVE BEEN OUT THERE
SAYING YOU HAVE BEEN
SURPRISINGLY LOW KEY ON THIS
ISSUE.
IN ESSENCE, THEY SAID THEY'VE
LOOKED TO YOU TO SPEAK UP MORE
ABOUT IT, TO ADMONISH THE FORCES
MORE ABOUT IT, AND THEY HAVE
BEEN SURPRISED NO ONE'S BEEN
PUBLICLY FIRED OVER THESE
INCIDENTS.
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
>> WHAT I SAY IS DON'T
CHARACTERIZE MY PUBLIC PERSONA
WITH MY LEVEL OF INTEREST AND
THE URGENCY WITH WHICH I DEAL
WITH THIS INTERNAL TO THE
PROFESSION.
AND BY THE WAY, WE HAVE TO
SEPARATE OUT THESE DIFFERENT
ISSUES.
SOME OF THEM ARE ACTUALLY
CRIMINAL.
SOME OF THEM ARE ETHICAL AND
BEHAVIORAL ISSUES.
SOME OF THEM ARE SOPHOMORIC,
CULTURAL ISSUES, AND SOME OF
THEM ARE JUST PLAIN STUPIDITY,
AND EACH OF THOSE HAS TO BE
DEALT WITH IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
YOU CAN'T LUMP ALL OF THAT
TOGETHER AND DECIDE, YOU KNOW,
ONE SIZE FITS ALL.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER ISSUE,
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF PUBLIC
ATTENTION RECENTLY AROUND THE
PROBLEM OF SEXUAL ASSAULT AND
ABUSE IN THE MILITARY.
JUST YESTERDAY, 55 UNITED STATES
SENATORS VOTED TO TAKE THE
PROSECUTION FOR THIS KIND OF
THING OUT OF THE CHAIN OF
COMMAND.
NOT ENOUGH TO PASS, BUT A
MAJORITY OF THE SENATE SAID
THIS.
WHAT DOES THIS SAY ABOUT THE
CONFIDENCE OF OUR SENIOR
POLITICAL LEADERS AND THEIR
ABILITY TO HANDLE THIS?
>> EVEN THOUGH SENATOR
GILLIBRAND'S BILL WAS DEFEATED,
A MAJORITY OF THE SENATORS
EXPRESSED A LACK OF CONFIDENCE
IN OUR ABILITY TO SOLVE THIS
OURSELVES.
I RESPECT GREATLY WHAT SENATOR
GILLIBRAND AND McCASKILL HAVE
DONE TO PUT A CONSTELLATION OF
REFORMS AROUND UNIFORM CODE OF
MILITARY JUSTICE TO HELP US.
WE ARE CURRENTLY ON THE CLOCK,
IF YOU WILL.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES SAID TO US IN DECEMBER,
YOU KNOW WHAT?
YOU'VE GOT ABOUT A YEAR TO SHOW
ME YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE,
AND WE UNDERSTAND THAT, YOU
KNOW, JUST BECAUSE SENATOR
GILLIBRAND'S BILL WAS DEFEATED
YESTERDAY, DOESN'T MEAN IN A
YEAR FROM NOW IT MIGHT NOT BE
REINTRODUCED.
IF WE HAVEN'T SHOWN TO MAKE A
DIFFERENCE WE DESERVE TO BE HELD
TO THE SCRUTINY AND STANDARD.
>> Woodruff: ONE OTHER THING,
GENERAL, NEWS REPORTS THAT A FAR
LARGER NUMBER OF TROOPS ARE
BEING KICKED OUT OF THE ARMED
FORCES WITH LESS THAN HONORABLE
DISCHARGES.
JUST IN THE LAST COUPLE OF
YEARS, MANY MORE SO THAN IN THE
PAST.
THAT MEANS, OF COURSE, THEY ARE
NOT ELIGIBLE FOR VETERANS
BENEFITS.
PEOPLE WHO FOLLOW THIS ISSUE SAY
MANY OF THESE ARE FOLKS WHO ARE
GETTING KICKED OUT BECAUSE
THEY'VE ACTED UP, BUT THEY'RE
ACTING UP BECAUSE OF
PSYCHOLOGICAL TRAUMA DURING
AFGHANISTAN AND IRAQ AND THEY'RE
NOT GETTING THE TREATMENT THEY
NEED IN THE SERVICES.
HOW DO YOU SEE THIS?
>> FIRST, I SEE IT IVMENT SECOND
OF ALL, THE MECHANISMS IN PLACE
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE BOTH
ADMINISTERING JUSTICE, IF YOU
WILL, FOR INDISCIPLINE AND
MISBEHAVIOR, WHICH WE HAVE TO
DO, BUT, AT THE SAME TIME,
UNDERSTAND THE PRESSURES THAT
WE'VE BEEN UNDER THE PAST TEN
YEARS.
THERE'S AN APPEALS PROCESS THAT
ACTUALLY EXTENDS WELL INTO
RETIREMENT.
WHAT WE CAN'T DO IS BEGIN TO
EXCUSE INDISCIPLINE, MISCONDUCT
AND CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR BECAUSE OF
THE POSSIBILITY THAT IT WAS
CREATED BY THE CONDITIONS OF
POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS AND OTHER
THINGS.
THE POINT HERE IS WE'VE GOT TO
WATCH BOTH OF THOSE, AND I THINK
WE'VE GOT IN PLACE -- I'M
CONFIDENT, IN FACT, WE'VE GOT IN
PLACE MECHANISMS TO ALLOW US TO
TRY TO REALLY UNPACK WHAT HAS
GONE ON.
BUT THAT'S NOT TO SAY THERE
WON'T BE THE OCCASION WHERE WE
MAYBE MISS SOMETHING, BUT WE DO
SEE IT, JUST AS YOU DESCRIBED
IT.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL MARTIN
DEMPSEY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR INTEREST.
>> Woodruff: OUR CONVERSATION
CONTINUES ONLINE, WHERE GENERAL
DEMPSEY TELLS US WHAT BOOKS HE'S
READING, AND ABOUT HIS LOVE OF
LITERATURE AND POETRY.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND GERSON.
JEFF IS BACK AND IN CHARGE OF
THAT.
>> Brown: THAT'S SYNDICATED
COLUMNIST MARK SHIELDS AND
WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST
MICHAEL GERSON.
DAVID BROOKS IS AWAY TODAY.
GENTLEMEN, LET'S GO BACK TO THE
BEGINNING OF THE INTERVIEW AND
COMMITMENT TO COME TO THE AID OF
EASTERN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, A
CONFRONTATION WITH RUSSIA, COLD
WAR TYPE OF TALK.
>> WELL, I THINK THE GRAVITY OF
THE SITUATION WAS VERY MUCH
UNDERLINED BY GENERAL DEMPSEY
AND HE WAS SERIOUS.
HE DIDN'T PRETEND IT WASN'T.
HE DIDN'T WANT THIS TO BE THE
GUNS OF AUGUST THAT WE STUMBLED
INTO SOMETHING AND SAID HE'S
KEEPING OPEN THE LINES OF
COMMUNICATION THAT HAS COME
APART IN RUSSIA AS WELL AS
URGING AND EMPHASIZING
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS.
>> Brown: I JUMP TO YOU,
MICHAEL.
>> IT STRUCK ME HOW SCARED THE
EASTERN EUROPEANS MUST BE.
ALL THESE THINGS, TALKING ABOUT
ARTICLE V, TALKING ABOUT TROOP
MOVEMENTS THAT'S NEEDED BUT IT'S
FRIGHTENING THEY'RE NEEDED.
VLADIMIR PUTIN WANT TO
RE-LITIGATE THE END OF THE COLD
WAR.
THAT'S ONE OF HIS GOALS, AND HE
USES TOOLS OF INTIMIDATION IN
WHAT HE REGARDS AS HIS SPHERE OF
INFLUENCE AND THAT INTIMIDATION
IS WORKING.
I THINK THAT INTERVIEWED
INDICATED IT NEEDED TO BE
REASSURED.
>> Brown: WHAT IS YOUR SENSE
OF HOW MUCH THE STAKES ARE
RAISED FOR THE U.S.,
INPOLITICALLY, IN THIS LAST
WEEK, AS THE MOVE INTO CRIMEA
HAS HAPPENED?
>> OH, I THINK -- LET'S BE VERY
BLUNT ABOUT IT, FOREIGN POLICY
IS NOT A FRONT BURNER ISSUE TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE RIGHT NOW
AND HAS NOT BEEN, AND THE
ECONOMY REMAINS SO, TRAILING
HEALTH CARE.
BUT IT IS OBVIOUSLY GETTING MORE
ATTENTION, AND UNDERSTANDABLY
SO, BECAUSE THE STAKES SEEM
HIGHER AND THE POSSIBILITY
FOR -- I DON'T WANT TO SAY
CATASTROPHE, BUT FOR CRISIS
CERTAINLY HAVE INCREASED.
I THINK POLITICALLY WE'VE SEEN A
CHANGE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE REALITY IS THIS, THERE IS
MINIMAL ENTHUSIASM FOR ANOTHER
WAR IN THIS COUNTRY.
I MEAN, WE'RE TOLD WE'RE GOING
TO BE TREATED AS OVERRIDERS,
FALSE INFORMATION AND TOLD IT
WAS GOING TO BE A CAKEWALK AND
IT HASN'T WORKED OUT.
SO I THINK THE AMERICAN
ENTHUSIASM FOR MILITARY
ENGAGEMENT IS PRETTY LIMITED.
>> I WANT TO THROW IN BECAUSE
WHAT HAS BEEN AN INCREASE THIS
WEEK OF CRITICISM FROM THE
OFFICES OF PRESIDENT OBAMA.
JOHN McCAIN SAID THIS IS A
RESULT OF A THANKLESS FOREIGN
POLICY IN WHICH NOBODY BELIEVES
IN AMERICAN STRENGTH ANYMORE.
>> THE THREATS OF THE WORLD
DON'T CARE IF AMERICANS ARE
INTERESTED OR NOT.
THEY RELY ON THEIR OWN TIMING
AND AMERICA NEEDS TO BE PREPARED
FOR THEM.
I THINK THAT McGAI McCAIN AND GM
HAVE MID A TOUGH CRITIQUE.
THIS COULD HAVE HAPPENED WITH
TEDDY ROOSEVELT OR RONALD REAGAN
IN POWER.
YOU DON'T KNOW.
THE CASE THEY'RE MAKING,
HOWEVER, IS THERE'S A CUMULATIVE
CASE AGAINST THIS
ADMINISTRATION.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT DEFENSE CUTS,
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE RESET WITH
RUSSIA WHICH ENDED THE ISOLATION
OF THE RUSSIANS AFTER THE
GEORGIAN INVASION, WHEN YOU LOOK
AT THE PRESIDENT CONSTANTLY
TALKING ABOUT A NATION BUILDING
A HOME, SIX YEARS OF RHETORIC,
TALKING ABOUT RETREAT AND
RETRENCHMENT, THE CASE IS THIS
DOES MATTER.
IF YOU LOOK HISTORICALLY, A
SENSED WEAKNESS IN THE
RELATIONSHIP IN THE SUMMIT THEY
HAD IN THE DISASTER IN THE COLD
WAR, KHRUSCHEV STARTED BUILDING
THE WALL TWO MONTHS LATER.
THESE KIND OF THINGS CAN MATTER
IN THE CALCULATIONS OF FOREIGN
LEADERS.
>> I COULD NOT DISAGREE MORE
WITH MICHAEL ON THIS.
FIRST OF ALL, JOHN McCAIN AND
LINDSALINDSEY GRAHAM WITH USE TR
RHETORICAL WORDS.
WE'RE NOT HIRING SOMEONE WHO'S
GOING TO DO A BAD IMITATION OF
CLINT EASTWOOD AND SAY MAKE MY
DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS A RATIONAL,
THOUGHTFUL, SERIOUS APPROACH.
HE'S NOT SOMEBODY WHO SPEAKS IN
LAMBASTIC TERMS OR HURLS
THUNDERBOLTS RHETORICALLY.
THE REALITY IS THE RESET WITH
RUSSIA AND I AM SECOND TO NONE
IN MY DISLIKE OF PUTIN BUT THE
REALITY IS THAT WE WOULD NOT
HAVE HAD AN ELECTION IN IRAN, IN
MY JUDGMENT, WITHOUT THAT RESET
WITH HIM THAT LED TO A MORE
MODERATE LEADERSHIP THERE AND A
CHANCE FOR DENUCLEARIZATION.
AS FAR AS THE SYRIAN SITUATION
IS CONCERNED, I DON'T THINK WE
WOULD HAVE GOTTEN AS FAR WITH
THEIR CHEMICAL WEAPONS WITHOUT
PUTIN'S INVOLVEMENT.
THE REALITY IS THERE IS NO
ACTION STATEMENT THAT ANY OF
THESE PEOPLE HAVE.
THEY SAY, LET ME TELL YOU, THIS
IS TOO MUCH, PUTIN'S A BUM AND
THIS CAN'T STAND AND -- ALL
RIGHT, WHAT DO WE DO?
WHAT DO WE DO?
>> A LONG-TERM STRATEGY OF
ISOLATION AGAINST RUSSIA WHERE
WE'RE IMPOSING SANCTIONS,
WORKING WITH THE EUROPEANS WHO
ARE LESS WILLING THAN WE ARE TO
TAKE THE SET OF ACTIONS.
>> Brown: THESE WORDS STEM
FROM A FECKLESS FOREIGN POLICY.
>> THE SITUATION IS WE HAD A
PREVIOUS RUSSIAN INVASION OF ONE
OF IT'S NEIGHBORS, GEORGIA.
THERE WAS A CREATION OF
ISOLATION.
THAT ISOLATION WAS ENDED.
THAT'S WHAT THE RESET MEANT.
IT'S NOT IRRATIONAL FOR VLADIMIR
PUTIN TO SAY, I CAN OUTLAST THIS
ISOLATION AS WELL.
WE NEED TO SAY THAT'S NOT THE
CASE, THAT HE CAN'T OUTLAST THIS
ISOLATION LIKE HE DID THE LAST
ONE.
>> I DON'T KNOW, MILITARILY,
BEYOND WHAT HAS HAPPENED SO FAR
WHAT WOULD LEAD TO THE UNITED
STATES ENGAGEMENT AND
INVOLVEMENT, AND I DON'T HOW THE
SANCTIONS ARE GOING TO BE
EMPLOYED ABSENT EUROPEAN
COOPERATION.
ARE WE GOING TO CUT OFF GAS
EUROPEANS DEPEND ON?
THAT MEANS U.S. HAS TO EXPORT
AND THE UNITED STATES WILL HAVE
TO FTLI THE BAN ON EXPORTING
GAS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF COMPLICATED
PARTS AND IT SEEMS TO BE A GLEE
ON SO MANY ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE NOW LED BY RUDY GIULIANI
WHO EX TOLD PUTIN AS AN
ADMIRABLE LEADER, SOMEONE WHO
DECIDES WHAT HE WANTS TO GO,
GETS IT THROUGH PARLIAMENT AND
30 MINUTES LATER IT'S DONE.
AN ANTI-DEMOCRATIC ENDORSEMENT.
BY KIC DICK CHENEY WHO SAYS BARK
OBAMA WOULD RATHER SPEND MONEY
ON FOOD STAMPS THAN TROOPS.
THERE JUST SEEMS TO BE SORT OF
AN EAGERNESS TO LA LAS EAGERNESK
OBAMA.
>> THE ANALYSTS SAYING IS WE ARE
INCREASING THE ISOLATION OF
RUSSIANS.
THAT HE IS MOVING TO CONSOLIDATE
HIS GAME ON THE REFERENDUM TO
INCORPORATE CRIMEA INTO THE
RUSSIAN EMPIRE.
>> I HAVE A PROBLEM WITH.
THIS THE PEOPLE OF CRIMEA, I
ASSUME, WERE GOING TO SAY THEY
SHOULD HAVE SOME RIGHT TO
SELF-DETERMINATION IF THIS IS
DONE LEGALLY AND
CONSTITUTIONALLY.
>> IT'S NOT LEGALLY.
F IT'S DONE LEGALLY AND
CONSTITUTIONALLY UNDER AN
INTERNATIONAL MODEL AND THEY
VOTE TO ASSOCIATE, IDENTIFY WITH
RUSSIA, THEN WHAT IS THE UNITED
STATES -- ISN'T THAT WHAT IRAQ
WAS ABOUT?
SELF-DETERMINATION?
WASN'T THAT WHAT WE WERE GOING
TO HAVE THERE?
THAT'S WHAT THE WAR WAS ABOUT.
>> Brown: ONE LAST WORD AND
THEN --
>> THAT WAS PRECISELY DEMPSEY'S
POINT.
IF YOU WERE TO ALLOW RUSSIAN
SELF-DETERMINATION ACROSS
EASTERN EUROPE YOU WOULD HAVE
ENDLESS CONFLICT AND CHAOS.
THIS CAN'T BE ALLOWED.
WE CAN'T ALLOW RUSSIA TO
REASSERT ITS ROLL IN WHAT IT
REGARDS AS ITS INFLUENCE AGAINST
PRO WESTERN GOVERNMENTS LIKE THE
UKRAINE.
>> I'M NOT RECOMMENDING THAT OR
SUGGESTING IT AS AN ALTERNATIVE.
I REMEMBER TIMES WHEN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA --
>> I'M GOING TO --
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC TO
PROTECT AMERICAN CITIZENS WHICH
WAS A SMITH AND WE DID IT.
AND THAT WAS RECENT AMERICAN
HISTORY.
>> Brown: I WANT TO TURN TO
ONE OTHER VERY DIFFERENT SUBJECT
HERE.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REID HAS TWICE GONE TO THE FLOOR
TO HAVE THE SENATE TO DENOUNCE
COKE BROTHERS, MAJOR
CONTRIBUTORS, AND CALLED
ACTIVITY UN-AMERICAN AND ACCUSED
THEM OF TRYING TO BUY THE
COUNTRY.
MICHAEL?
>> FIRST, WHEN A POWERFUL
POLITICAL LEADER USES HIS OFFICE
TO ATTACK PRIVATE CITIZENS
ENGAGED IN POLITICAL SPEECH
THAT'S A PROBLEM.
HE DIDN'T USE THESE ISSUES TO
TALK ABOUT FINANCE CAMPAIGN
REFORM.
HE SAID "I'M AFTER THE TWO
BROTHERS."
THAT'S INTIMIDATION AND ABUSE OF
POWER BY A PUBLIC OFFICIAL AND
TYPICAL OF A CON SPI CONSPIRATOL
NARRATIVE.
YOU KNOW, I THINK PEOPLE SHOULD
ENGAGE IN ARGUMENTS, NOT
QUESTION THE MOTIVES AND FUNDING
OF THEIR OPPONENTS.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK?
IT'S UNFORTUNATE SENATOR REID
HAS BECOME UN-AMERICAN.
LIVES WERE TRASHED BY THAT
EPITHET.
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC AND
POLITICAL FINANCING IS A
DISASTER BEYOND A SCANDAL,
BEYOND A TRAGEDY.
WE WENT THROUGH ELECTIONS FROM
1976 TO 2008 IN THIS COUNTRY
WHERE CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT
ACCEPTED LIMITS ON WHAT THEY
COULD RECEIVE AND WHAT THEY
COULD SPEND AND THEN ACCEPTED
PUBLIC FINANCING IN THE GENERAL
ELECTION, AND THAT WAS BROKEN --
LET IT BE NOTED -- BY BARACK
OBAMA IN 2008 UNDER THE MYTH
THAT JOHN McCAIN WAS GOING TO
RAISE MORE MONEY THAN HE DID AND
HE RAISED TWICE AS MUCH AS
McCAIN DID.
FROM THAT POINT FORWARD, BRINGS
IN THE CITIZENS UNITED CASE
WHICH SAID MISTAKENLY IF ANY OF
THE JUDGES WOULD HAVE RUN FOR
SHERIFF THEY MAY HAVE KNOWN THE
TRUTH, SAID CORPORATIONS WERE
PERSONS, THE TOTAL OPPOSITE OF
ANYTHING TEDDY ROOSEVELT AND
REPUBLICANS STOOD FOR AND WE
HAVE NOW OPENED THIS UP TO
PEOPLE LIKE THE COKE BROTHERS OR
ANYBODY ELSE, THE LEFT, RIGHT,
AND IT TURNS THE CANDIDATES INTO
IDEOLOGICAL PEOPLE.
>> Brown: THE TACTIC, THE
PROBLEM IS THE TACTIC, RIGHT?
>> I THINK THERE ARE DISTURBING
ELEMENTS ABOUT THIS SYSTEM, BUT
THEY'RE NOT DISTRIBUTED BY
IDEOLOGY.
YOU HAVE THE COKE BROTHERS, THE
UNION AND THE CHAMBER.
AND THAT THE SYSTEM YOU MAY NOT
LIKE BUT IT DOES NOT PRIVILEGE
ONE PARTY OR ONE IDEOLOGY AND WE
GENERALLY BELIEVED IN A
MARKETPLACE AND IDEAS --
>> I'M TALKING ABOUT THE FACT
CANDIDATES SPEND ALL OF THIS
TIME -- MORE TIME RAISING MONEY
AND THE MORE MONEY WE RAISE, IT
NARROWS YOUR ISSUES BECAUSE YOU
END UP TAKING MONEY FROM SO MANY
SOURCES YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
RAISE ISSUES.
>> Brown: WE ENDED UP WITH OUR
FIRST AGREEMENT.
MICHAEL GERSON, MARK SHIELDS,
THANK YOU YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AS WE REPORTED LAST
WEEK, OUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN SUFFERED A LIFE-
THREATENING INJURY WHILE ON
ASSIGNMENT FOR US IN THE
PHILIPPINES.
DURING AN EMERGENCY SURGERY, HIS
LEFT ARM WAS AMPUTATED ABOVE THE
ELBOW.
WE'LL TALK WITH MILES ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED AND HIS RECENT
REPORTING.
BUT FIRST, THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK
ON P.B.S.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
>> Woodruff: MILES O'BRIEN HAS
TRAVELED THE WORLD FOR THE
NEWSHOUR.
AND AT TIMES TO VERY DANGEROUS
PLACES.
AS HE DID FOR HIS CURRENT SERIES
OF REPORTS FROM THE CRIPPLED
FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR PLANT IN
JAPAN.
THE THIRD INSTALLMENT IN THAT
SERIES WILL AIR ON TUESDAY, THE
ANNIVERSARY OF THE TSUNAMI THAT
DESTROYED IT.
AFTER LEAVING JAPAN, HE TRAVELED
TO THE PHILIPPINES FOR OTHER
UPCOMING STORIES.
THERE HE DROPPED A HEAVY CAMERA
CASE ON HIS LEFT ARM.
THE INJURY BECAME LIFE-
THREATENING AND, DURING
EMERGENCY SURGERY, MILES' LEFT
ARM WAS AMPUTATED ABOVE THE
ELBOW.
HE'S NOW BACK HOME AND JOINS US
TO TALK ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED.
PLUS, WHAT HE LEARNED AT
FUKUSHIMA.
MILES, WE ARE SO GLAD TO SEE
YOU.
>> JUDY, IT'S GOOD TO BE HERE.
IT'S GOOD TO BE ANYWHERE, TO BE
ALIVE.
>> Woodruff: PEOPLE THINK
REPORTING IS A GLAMOROUS
PROFESSION.
YOU OVER IN ASIA REPORTING IN
JAPAN, YOU WERE DOING YOUR OWN
CAMERA WORK, SOUND, YOUR OWN
REPORTING.
YOU'REN TH IE PHILIPPINES, AND
THEN THIS ACCIDENT HAPPENED.
>> YEAH, YOU KNOW, BEING A
ONE-MAN BAND COMES WITH ITS OWN
SET OF RISKS, BEING A JOURNALIST
COMES WITH ITS OWN SET OF RISKS.
I SUSPECT IF WE HAD BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THIS BEFORE THE ACCIDENT
WE WOULD BE THINKING ABOUT A
TRIP TO THE FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR
PLANT OR A WAR ZONE AND
SOMETIMES IT'S A HEAVY CASE
FILLED WITH GEAR YOU NEED TO BE
CAREFUL OF AND THAT'S WHAT I
FOUND.
>> Woodruff: IT LANDED ON YOUR
ARM, YOU EVENTUALLY GOT TO THE
HOSPITAL.
>> IT BEGAN AS A BRUISE AND IT
JUST GOT A LOT WORSE AFTER ABOUT
A DAY OR SO, AND THE PAIN GOT
WORSE, AND IT -- THERE WAS
SWELLING AND IT GOT ME
INCREASINGLY NERVOUS WHEN I SAW
SOME DISCOLORATION AND
ULTIMATELY NUMBNESS IN MY HAND.
WHEN NAT HAPPENED, I COULDN'T
DENY I HAD TO GET MEDICAL HELP.
>> Woodruff: BY THE TIME YOU
SAY A DOCTOR, THEY QUICKLY
IDENTIFIED IT AS ACUTE
COMPARTMENT SYNDROME.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
I LITERALLY HAD TO WIKI IT WITH
MY PHONE BECAUSE I NEVER HEARD
OF COMPARTMENT SYNDROME.
I'M VERY GRATEFUL THE DOCTOR
THERE SAW IT FOR WHAT IT WAS
BECAUSE IT'S VERY MUCH A
LIFE-THREATENING SITUATION.
ESSENTIALLY I FOUND OUT QUICKLY
THAT YOUR MUSCLES AND VEINS AND
SOME OF YOUR TISSUE SITS INSIDE
KIND OF A SHEATHING WHICH IS
LIKE THE INSULATION ON WIRE
CABLE, BUT THAT SHEATHING
DOESN'T EXPAND AND IF THERE'S
SOME SORT OF INFLAMMATION OR
SOMETHING THAT CAUSES SWELLING
INSIDE THERE, THE PRESSURE
BUILDS AND THERE'S NO PLACE FOR
THE BLOOD TO GO.
THE BLOOD FLOW CUTS OFF AND THE
THING TO DO IS AN EMERGENCY
FASCIOTOMY WHICH CUTS THE
SHEATHING.
THAT WAS THE GOAL.
THEY TOLD ME, IF THINGS DON'T GO
WELL, YOU MIGHT LOSE YOUR ARM.
I, OF COURSE, HOPED FOR THE
BEST.
WHEN I WOKE UP, I THOUGHT I FELT
MY ARM BUT UNFORTUNATELY THINGS
DID NOT GO FOR THE BEST.
>> Woodruff: SO, MILES, FOR
THE LAST TWO WEEKS, YOU HAVE
BEEN WITHOUT YOUREFT L ARM AND
WITH A LOT OF PAIN.
>> YEAH, WHAT HAPPENS -- IT'S
INTERESTING, THE PAIN, WHEN YOU
LOSE A LIMB, IS PHANTOM LIMB
PAIN.
WHAT'S INTERESTING ON ONE LEVEL,
IS THE WAY YOUR BRAIN IS WIRED.
I FEEL IT MORE ACUTELY THAN I
HAD IT.
IT'S LIKE IT'S IN A VICE AND CAN
BE EXTREMELY PAINFUL.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE FEELING
IT.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: HOW YOU DEALING
WITH THIS?
I KNOW YOU HAVE LIMITLESS
ENERGY, ALWAYS ON THE GO.
HOW YOU COPING?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S
INTERESTING.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT ABOUT FOCUS.
OFF CHOICE IN LIFE WHEREVER YOU
ARE IN LIFE TO KIND OF, YOU
KNOW -- I LOVE WHAT WINSTON
CHURCHILL SAID, IF YOU'RE GOING
THROUGH HELL, JUST KEEP GOING.
PART OF KEEP GOING IS THERE'S
REAL WISDOM IN THAT.
HERE I WAS IN A SITUATION WHERE
ONE OF MY FIRST THOUGHTS WAS
HERE I WENT TO JAPAN, WENT TO
THE FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR PLANT, I
FELT STRONGLY ABOUT GETTING THE
THE STORIES OUT, AND I DIDN'T
WANT TLOSEO  THE OPPORTUNITY.
SO I STARTED FOCUSING ON MY WORK
AND IT WAS REALLY AN IMPORTANT
AND GOOD TONIC FOR ME.
I HAVE TO PAY THE PIPER LATER,
BUT IT GOT ME THROUGH A TOUGH
TIME JUST BY FOCUSING ON DOING
THESE STORIES.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU'RE A
SCIENCE REPORTER, SO YOU HAVE
BEEN LOOKING AT WHAT HAPPENED TO
YOU CLOSELY AND YOU TOLD ME YOU
HAVE BEEN GETTING A LOT OF
ADVICE FROM PEOPLE WHO HAVE
HEARD ABOUT THIS.
>> IT'S INTERESTING -- OF
COURSE, ONE OF THE THINGS YOU
THINK ABOUT IN A SITUATION LIKE
THIS IN A COUNTRY LIKE THAT,
WOULD THINGS HAVE BEEN DIFFERENT
IF IT HAD HAPPENED IN THE U.S.,
WOULD I STILL HAVE MY ARM.
I ASKED MY DOCTOR THAT QUESTION
AND HE SAID PROBABLY NOT BECAUSE
THE WAY THIS COMPARTMENT
SYNDROME MANIFESTS ITSELF, THE
SYMPTOMS SHOW UP KIND OF LATE IN
THE GAME.
THEN I HEARD FROM A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO HAD BEEN THROUGH IT
AND HAD THEIR LIMBS SALVAGED AND
THEY LIVE A LIFE OF GREAT
SUFFERING BECAUSE THE LIMB IS SO
DAMAGED AND PAINFUL.
SO THOSE ARE THE KIND OF THINGS
THAT, WHEN THE THING HAPPENS,
YOU JUST HAVE TO MOVE ON AND NOT
SECOND GUESS THOSE KINDS OF
THINGS.
>> Woodruff: BUT HERE YOU ARE,
BACK REPORTING, YOU FINISHED --
YOU RAN TWO WITH PIECES ON
FUKUSHIMA ON THE "NewsHour",
YOU'RE WORKING ON ANOTHER PIECE.
YOU'RE A PILOT, MILES.
HOW DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE
FUTURE?
>> WELL, THERE ARE THINGS THAT,
YOU KNOW, I'VE CONQUERED.
I CAN DO MY STORIES AND -- I
TIED THIS TIE TODAY.
I'M VERY PROUD OF THAT.
THE LITTLE THINGS.
>> Woodruff: LOOKS BEAUTIFUL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I DO LIKE TO FLY AIRPLANES.
I WAS UP IN THE NATIONAL
REHABILITATION HOSPITAL THE
OTHER DAY, A FANTASTIC FACILITY
HERE IN WASHINGTON, AND I SAID I
REALLY LIKE TO RIDE MY BIKE, I
LIKE TO FLY AIRPLANES, AND I
WANT TO GET BACK TO SHOOTING
VIDEO, THOSE ARE MY THREE BIG
CRITERIA.
THEY'RE, LIKE, NO PROBLEM, WE
HAVE ATTACHMENTS FOR ALL OR
SOMETHING.
SO PART OF MY SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY MIND AS A REPORTER IS
THINKING THIS IS KIND OF
INTERESTING, HOW THIS ALL WORKS
AND THE TECHNOLOGY AND THE SAVVY
AND THE REASON THE TECHNOLOGY
PROGRESSED SO MUCH IS BECAUSE OF
THE WARS AND THE LOSSES
ASSOCIATED WITH THAT AND I,
FORTUNATELY, WILL BENEFIT FROM
SOME OF THAT TECHNOLOGY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU SAY
TO ALL THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
WATCHING, WHOSE HEARTS GO OUT TO
YOU, WHO WANT THE BEST FOR YOU?
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THEM?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, THANK
YOU.
I HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO GET BACK
WITH EVERYBODY.
I'VE HEARD FROM SO MANY, ALL OF
THEM OUT THERE, AND I JUST
APPRECIATE THE CONCERN AND THE
SHOW OF LOVE AND, YOU KNOW, THIS
IS NOT THE WAY YOU WANT TO FIND
OUT THAT YOU'RE LOVED, BUT IT
REALLY -- IT WAS WONDERFUL.
BUT I WANT PEOPLE TO KNOW, MORE
THAN ANYTHING, NOT TO WORRY
ABOUT ME, THAT I WILL BE OKAY.
I CAN FIGURE THIS OUT.
IT'S SURMOUNTABLE.
IT'S NOT FUN.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING I WOULD WISH
ON ANYBODY, BUT IT CAN BE DONE.
>> ALL OF YOUR FRIENDS ARE
ABSOLUTELY IN YEAH OF YOU,
MILES.
MILES O'BRIEN, THANK YOU FOR
COMING BY.
WE LKOO FORWARD TO MANY, MANY
YEARS OF CONTINUING TO WORK WITH
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
U.S. EMPLOYERS ADDED 175,000
JOBS IN FEBRUARY.
AND THERE WERE REPORTS PRO-
RUSSIAN FORCES TRIED TO SEIZE A
UKRAINIAN MILITARY BASE IN
CRIMEA USING STUN GRENADES.
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT SUPPORTED
CRIMEA'S PLANS TO VOTE ON
WHETHER IT BREAKS AWAY FROM
UKRAINE.
IN AN INTERVIEW WITH THE
NEWSHOUR, GENERAL MARTIN
DEMPSEY, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
JOINT CHIEFS, SAID RUSSIAN MOVES
INTO CRIMEA POSE A SIGNIFICANT
RISK TO EASTERN EUROPE.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, A GREAT WHITE SHARK NAMED
LYDIA IS ON THE VERGE OF MAKING
HISTORY.
USING A SATELLITE TAG, SHE COULD
BE THE FIRST OF HER SPECIES TO
BE SEEN CROSSING THE ATLANTIC.
WATCH A VIDEO SHOWING THE
SCIENTISTS TAGGING THE GREAT
WHITE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK, WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
IFILL WE DIG INTO THE DILEMMA IN
UKRAINE, THE HISTORY, THE
OPTIONS AND THE FRAUGHT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE U.S.
AND RUSSIA.
PLUS A PEEK INSIDE THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY'S PRESIDENTIAL
CATTLE CALL.
LATER TONIGHT ON WASHINGTON
WEEK.
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND LOOKS AT
THE KEY ROLE GERMANY COULD PLAY
IN RESOLVING THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY WITH A LOOK AT THE
PUSH TO GET THE U.S. TO RATIFY
AN INTERNATIONAL TREATY TO
ENSURE THE RIGHTS OF THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES AROUND THE WORLD.
TH'S TATHE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A NICE
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.